# 18F-StatPhys
Project 6.7 - Other simulationThe coordinates may be used to simulate the behavior of liquid systems are the
Monte Carlo (MC) method, which only yields static properties, and the method of
Stochastic Dynamics (SD), which is an extension of the MD method.

## Monte Carlo of simple liquids: 1 particle moves
The usual MC method to simulate simple liquids is the Metropolis method [16].
Given a stariting configuration of an N atom system, a new configuration is generated
by random displacement of one or more atoms. The displacements should be such
that in the limit of a large number of successive displacements the available Cartesian
space of all atoms is homogeneously sampled. The newly generated configuration is
either accepted or rejected on the basis of an energy criterion involving the change
$\nabla E$ of the potential energy (2) with respect to the previous configuration. It is
accepted if $e^{-\nabla E/kT}>r$, where r is a random number homogeneously distributed
over the interval (0,1). Otherwise it is rejected and the previous configuration is
counted again and used as a starting point for another random displacement. Thus
each configuration occurs in the ensemble with a probability proportional to its
Boltzmann factor [1, 4]. Implement this 1-particle Monte Carlo scheme in the MD
program and compare the MC simulated properties with those generated by the
MD method: $E_{pot}$, $\nabla E_{pot}$, g(r), etc. as a function of the number of steps (averages,
convergence). Choose the MC step ∆r = (∆x, ∆y, ∆z) such that the acceptance
ratio is about 0.5 for a given temperature.

## Monte Carlo of simple liquids: N-particle moves
The Monte Carlo algorithm can also be implemented by performing N-particle random
moves, i.e., execute the random moves of all N particles in the system simultaneously.
Implement this N-particle Monte Carlo scheme in the MD program and
compare the MC simulated properties with those generated by the generated by the
MD method: Epot, $\nabla E_{pot}$, g(r), etc. as a function of the number of steps (averages,
convergence). Choose the MC step $\nabla r^N = (\nabla x^N, \nabla y^N, \nabla z^N)$ such that the
acceptance ratio is about 0.5 for a given temperature.
